# Messenger App

Welcome to the Messenger App! This is a Kotlin-based messaging application that leverages Firebase for backend services. The app is designed with a clean architecture using MVVM, and it includes features such as Firebase Cloud Messaging, Firestore, and Kotlin coroutines.

## Features

- **Firestore**: Real-time database to store chat messages.
- **Navigation Component**: Simplifies the implementation of navigation within the app.
- **Two-Way Data Binding**: Ensures that the UI and data model stay in sync.
- **MVVM Architecture**: Separates concerns to improve code maintainability.
- **Kotlin Coroutines**: Simplifies asynchronous programming.
- **Firebase Storage**: Stores media files shared in the chat.

## Firebase Structure

### Messages

- **Collection**: `Messages`
  - **Document**: `chatroomid`
    - **Collection**: `chats`
      - **Document**: `Timestamp`

#### Chatroom ID

The `chatroomid` is generated by joining the sender's and receiver's IDs using the sort function. This ensures that the unique ID remains consistent regardless of who is the sender or receiver.

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Android Studio
- Firebase account

### Installation

1. **Clone the repository**:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/PyromaniacSiphon/ChatMate
   ```
2. **Open the project in Android Studio**.
3. **Add Firebase configuration**:
   - Download the `google-services.json` file from your Firebase project settings.
   - Place the `google-services.json` file in the `app` directory of your project.
4. **Sync the project** with Gradle files.

### Usage

1. **Run the app** on an emulator or physical device.
2. **Sign in** or **create a new account**.
3. **Start messaging** by selecting a contact or creating a new chat.

## Project Structure

- **data**: Contains data sources, including Firebase and local database interactions.
- **ui**: Includes UI components and activities.
- **viewmodel**: Contains ViewModel classes to manage UI-related data.
- **repository**: Abstracts the data sources and provides data to the ViewModel.

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please create a pull request with a detailed description of your changes.


## Acknowledgements

- [Firebase](https://firebase.google.com/)
- [Kotlin](https://kotlinlang.org/)

---

Feel free to reach out if you have any questions or suggestions!

Happy Coding! 🚀

